# pands-project2021
This is the final project for the 2021 Programming and Scripting course. The purpose of this project is to analyse the Fisher’s Iris data set using Python scripting.

The Fisher’s Iris data set comes from the 1936 R. A. Fisher paper “The use of multiple measurements in taxonomic problems”. In this paper, the author tackles the problem on how to distinguish between 3 different species of Iris flowers using the measurements of their 4 characteristics (Petal’s and Sepals length and width). The method used in this paper focuses on finding a linear function of these four measurements that would maximize the ratio of the difference between the means to the standard deviations within species. The larger this ratio gets the easier it is to distinguish between different species using the measurement data. 

This repository contains the following folders:

Code – this is the directory where all the Python codes is stored:

	analysis.py – main program
	fishermodule.py – this file contains the ‘fisheranalysys’ function that recreates results of Fisher’s paper. This function is called from the main program.
    dofmodule - module with Counter class and printtable function, both used for data output formatting

Data – this directory stores the Fisher’s Iris data set in 2 files downloaded from https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/iris:

    -iris.data – file with the data without the attribute names
    -attribute.names – file with the attribute names only

Out – this directory stores all the output files autogenerated by the Python code

Papers – Fischer’s original paper downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/j.1469-1809.1936.tb02137.x

Report – the final summary of the analysis is in the file ‘PANDS 2021 Project Report.docx’ stored in this directory